docs: add notes on running Sidero on RPi4 (#457)
talos-systems/sidero: website/content/docs/v0.3/Guides/sidero-on-rpi4.md

---
description: "Running Sidero on Raspberry Pi 4 to provision bare-metal servers."
title: Sidero on Raspberry Pi 4
weight: 7
---

> Sidero doesn't require lots of computing resources, so SBCs might be a perfect fit to run

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sidero doesn't require a lot of computing resources, so SBCs are a perfect fit to run
```

the Sidero management cluster.
In this guide, we are going to install Talos on Raspberry Pi4, deploy Sidero and other CAPI components.

## Prerequisites

Please see Talos documentation for additional information on [installing Talos on Raspberry Pi4](https://www.talos.dev/docs/v0.10/single-board-computers/rpi_4/).

> Download `clusterctl` CLI executable version at least 0.3.17 from [CAPI releases](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cluster-api/releases).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Download the `clusterctl` CLI  from [CAPI releases](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cluster-api/releases).
The minimum required version is 0.3.17.
```

## Installing Talos

> Prepare SD card with Talos image, boot RPi4 with the SD card.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prepare the SD card with the Talos RPi4 image, and boot the RPi4.
```

Talos should drop into maintenance mode printing the acquired IP address.
Record the IP address as the environment variable `SIDERO_ENDPOINT`:

```bash
export SIDERO_ENDPOINT=192.168.x.x
```

> > Note: it makes sense to transform DHCP lease for RPi4 into a static reservation so that RPi4 always has the same IP address.

Reviewer: Another option that I thought was pretty neat, was to use a VIP. This works too, and not sure I have a strong preference for documenting/recommending one way over another.

Author: VIP still needs a reservation though on DHCP side?

Generate Talos machine configuration for a single-node cluster:

```bash
talosctl gen config --config-patch='[{"op": "add", "path": "/cluster/allowSchedulingOnMasters", "value": true},{"op": "replace", "path": "/machine/install/disk", "value": "/dev/mmcblk0"}]' rpi4-sidero https://${SIDERO_ENDPOINT}:6443/
```

> Submit generated configuration to Talos:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Submit the generated configuration to Talos:
```

```bash
talosctl apply-config --insecure -n ${SIDERO_ENDPOINT} -f controlplane.yml
```

Merge client configuration `talosconfig` into default `~/.talos/config` location:

```bash
talosctl config merge talosconfig
```

Update default endpoint and nodes:

```bash
talosctl config endpoints ${SIDERO_ENDPOINT}
talosctl config nodes ${SIDERO_ENDPOINT}
```

> Talos should boot now on RPi4, verify that with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can verify that Talos has booted by running:
```

```bash
$ talosctl version
talosctl version
Client:
    Tag:         v0.10.3
    SHA:         21018f28
    Built:
    Go version:  go1.16.3
    OS/Arch:     linux/amd64

Server:
    NODE:        192.168.0.31
    Tag:         v0.10.3
    SHA:         8f90c6a8
    Built:
    Go version:  go1.16.3
    OS/Arch:     linux/arm64
```

Bootstrap the etcd cluster:

```bash
talosctl bootstrap
```

At this point, Kubernetes is bootstrapping, and it should be available once all the images are fetched.

> Fetch `kubeconfig` from the cluster with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Fetch the `kubeconfig` from the cluster with:
```

```bash
talosctl kubeconfig
```

> Progress of node boostrap can be seen with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can watch the bootstrap progress by running:
```

```bash
talosctl dmesg -f
```

Once Talos prints `[talos] boot sequence: done`, Kubernetes should be up:

```bash
kubectl get nodes
```

## Installing Sidero

> Install Sidero in host network mode exposing the endpoints at the node address:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Install Sidero with host network mode, exposing the endpoints on the node's address:
```

cert-manager          cert-manager-webhook-7f9f4f8dcb-29xm4        1/1     Running   0          31m
kube-system           coredns-fcc4c97fb-wkxkg                      1/1     Running   0          35m
kube-system           coredns-fcc4c97fb-xzqzj                      1/1     Running   0          35m
kube-system           kube-apiserver-talos-192-168-0-31            1/1     Running   0          33m
kube-system           kube-controller-manager-talos-192-168-0-31   1/1     Running   0          33m
kube-system           kube-flannel-qmlw6                           1/1     Running   0          34m
kube-system           kube-proxy-j24hg                             1/1     Running   0          34m
kube-system           kube-scheduler-talos-192-168-0-31            1/1     Running   0          33m
```

Verify Sidero installation and network setup with:

```bash
$ curl -I http://${SIDERO_ENDPOINT}:8081/tftp/ipxe.efi
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Content-Length: 1020416
Content-Type: application/octet-stream
Last-Modified: Thu, 03 Jun 2021 15:40:58 GMT
Date: Thu, 03 Jun 2021 15:41:51 GMT
```

Now Sidero is installed, and it is ready to be used.

> Configure DHCP server to PXE boot your bare metal servers from `$SIDERO_ENDPOINT` (see [Bootstrapping guide](../bootstrapping/) on DHCP configuration).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure your DHCP server to PXE boot your bare metal servers from `$SIDERO_ENDPOINT` (see [Bootstrapping guide](../bootstrapping/) on DHCP configuration).
```
